127] KANT’S IAQI UGURAL DISSERTA TION OF 1770 49

parts belonging to it as a particular quantity. But in this
case whatsoever things are regarded as mutually parts of
wlzatsoever whole, are understood to be conjointly posited.
This absolute totality, apparently an everyday and perfectly
obvious concept, especially when, as happens in the defini-
tion, it is enunciated negatively, when canvassed thoroughly
becomes the crucial test of the philosopher. For it is scarce
conceivable how the z'nexlzaustz‘ble series of the states of the
universe succeeding one another eternally be reducible to a
whole comprehending all changes whatsoever, Since it is
necessary to very infinitude to be without end, and hence no
successive-series is given but what is the part of another,
completeness or absolute* totalizjy is by parity of reasoning
plainly excluded. For although the notion of a part can be
taken in a universal sense, and although everything contained
under this notion, if regarded as posited in the same series,
constitutes unity, yet the concept os the whole appears to
exact their all being taken sz'nmllaneously, which in the case
given is impossible. For, although to the whole series noth-
ing succeeds, there is given in the succession no posited
series to which nothing succeeds, unless it be the last. There
will, then, in eternity be something which is last, which is
absurd. Perhaps some may think that the difficulty which
besets a successive infinite is absent from a simultaneons ἰη-
finite, for the reason that apparently simullaneity plainly
professes to embrace all at tlze same time. But, if the simul-
taneous infinite be admitted, the successive infinite also will
have to be conceded, and the negation of the latter cancels
the tormer. For the simultaneous infinite offers matters
everlastingly inexhaustible to a successive progress in infini-
tum through its innumerable parts, which numberless series
actually being given in the simultaneous infinite, a series
though inexhaustible by successive addition could be given
as a whole. In solution of the perplexing problem note;

