20 KANT‘S [NA UG URAL DISSER TA TION OF 1770 [98

but the validity of the basic assumptions implied in thinking.
All our knowledge begins with the senses.¹ But that the
objects themselves, as for instance, material nature, should
be subject to principles determined according to mere
concepts, is something, at all events, extremely contradictory.²
It is this seeming impossibility, which is yet a fact, on
which Kant establishes his critical principles. The begin-
ning of our knowledge from the senses is a beginning in time
and can furnish no starting-point for Kant, though it might
for Locke, Kant refusing to acknowledge Locke’s “falsely
pretended genealogy of metaphysics from the rabble of
common experience.” Kant does not controvert the psy-
chogenetics oi Locke. He simply does not acknowledge
them as metaphysics.

Kant's classification of philosophical schools is, on this
principle oi division, perfectly plain. With reference to the
origin of the pure concepts of reason, namely, whether they
are derived from experience or originate independently of
experience‚ in reason, Aristotle may be looked upon as the
head of the Empiricists, Plato as that oi the Nofflogists,
Locke, who followed Aristotle, and Leibnitz, who followed
Plato—though at a sufficient distance from his mystical
system—have not been able to bring the dispute to any
conclusion.

Epicurus, never allowing his syllogisms to go beyond the
limits of experience, was far more consistent in his sensual
system, at least, than Aristotle and Locke, more particularly
the latter, who, having derived all concepts and principles
from experience, goes so far in their application as to main-
tain that the existence of God and the immortality of the
soul, both oi which lie beyond possible experience, can be
proved with the evidence of a mathematical p1·oposition.³
By observations on the play of our thoughts and on the

¹ ΙΙΙ, 247. ²111, 249. ³ ΙΙΙ, 561.

